---
layout: post
title: Changes
tags:
- blogging
- personal
- jekyll
- ruby
- hosting
---

{{ page.title }}
----------------
----------------

Welcome to my new home. I moved. 

Why? - I am working on a [little tool] [1], written in Ruby, to collect interesting
articles on Twitter. To do so, I need to let the tool run on a server which is
online 24/7. But when I tried to run my Ruby program at my old webspace hosters
server I noticed that not only Ruby but the Rubygems where totally outdated.  I
chose the hosting because it was a special Ruby and Rails hosting. Yeah, right.

Here I have all my Ruby stuff installed by myself, so there will be everything
I need. And while I am at it, I started to move this blog, too. I read
[Blogging like a
hacker](http://tom.preston-werner.com/2008/11/17/blogging-like-a-hacker.html) a
while ago and wanted to try [Jekyll](http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll) since.
At the moment these pages look very much like those from Tom Preston-Werner. I
used his public repository to start with Jekyll. To migrate my old Wordpress
blog to Jekyll I used a nice tool written in Python called
[exitwp](https://github.com/thomasf/exitwp). But I had to do some manual tweaks
in the migrated markdown files, because I did not want to keep the old
Wordpress categories.

One feature I really liked about Jekyll (or maybe static page generators in
general) is the ability to push a git repository to deploy your website on the
server. I used the post-receive skript from the [wiki
pages](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki), but had to <code>source
~/.bash_profile</code> to be able to use my Ruby and Gems installed via
[RVM](https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/).

So, right now, I have the basic functionality here. Now I can write posts (and
I really hope, that I will do that more often) and create my own blog layout
when I am in the mood (I don't like design, CSS and stuff like that very much).

[1]: https://github.com/madhatter/tweetfeed "tweetfeed"

